README.md, before:

# Background
TODO

![MNIST digits mapped to two dimensions using t-SNE](/images/MNIST-tSNE_mapping.png)



# Setup
## Install code
```
git clone https://github.com/mrperkett/mnist-digits-visualization mnist-digits-visualization
cd mnist-digits-visualization/
# TODO: add pyenv commands
sudo pip install -e .
```

## build bhtsne
```
git clone https://github.com/lvdmaaten/bhtsne.git bhtsne
cd bhtsne/
g++ sptree.cpp tsne.cpp tsne_main.cpp -o bh_tsne -O2
cd ../
```

## install UMAP
TODO

## Download MNIST data
```
mkdir data
cd data/

wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/train-images-idx3-ubyte.gz
wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/train-labels-idx1-ubyte.gz
wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/t10k-images-idx3-ubyte.gz
wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/t10k-labels-idx1-ubyte.gz

gzip -d *.gz
cd ../
```

# Running t-SNE
```
python scripts/prepareData.py --data data/ -t training -n 1000 -o input
python bhtsne/bhtsne.py -d 2 -p 30 -r 0 -i input-data.tsv -o tsne-out.tsv
```

# plot using jupyter lab

Commit message:

updated README and added additional images

README.md, after:

# Background
t-SNE and UMAP are popular dimensional reduction algorithms that allow you to visualize high dimensional data in two dimensions.  This repository contains my investigation of these techniques on the popular MNIST handwritten digits dataset.  It includes the code necessary to generate all the plots you see here.

## Gallery
The MNIST dataset contains 70,000 handwritten digits, which have been scanned and resized to 28x28 pixel images.  A random subset of the handwritten digits is provided below. 
![MNIST handwritten digits](/images/MNIST-tSNE_mapping.png)

Each image can be represented as a vector of length 28 x 28 = 784, where the pixel values correspond to the level of color for each pixel (0.0 for white to 1.0 for black).  Using dimensional reduction algorithms, we can map each vector from 784 dimensions down to two dimensions for visualization.

To illustrate the power of t-SNE and UMAP, it's useful to see what you get using another powerful technique, Principal Component Analysis (PCA).  Although there is some separation between images in the plot below, note that the clusters would be impossible to distinguish if the data weren't labeled (i.e. colored).

![MNIST digits mapped to two dimensions using t-SNE](/images/MNIST-PCA_mapping_color.png)


However, if we use t-SNE, we can immediately see beautiful organization!
![MNIST digits mapped to two dimensions using t-SNE](/images/MNIST-tSNE_mapping.png)

And similar for UMAP
![MNIST digits mapped to two dimensions using UMAP](/images/MNIST-UMAP_mapping.png)

And by replacing the colored points from the t-SNE plot with their corresponding handwritten digit, we can zoom in and view the striking local organization.  In the plot below, notice the smooth transition from open top 4's to closed top 4's to 9's.  Points near each other are visually more similar than points distant.
![MNIST digits mapped to two dimensions using UMAP](/images/MNIST-tSNE-zoom_in_fours_and_nines.png)

t-SNE, UMAP, and other dimensional reduction techniques are useful in a variety of fields including bioinformatics, where we use them visualize the results from single cell RNA-Seq experiments.

## References
TODO: add the best of the references that I've found


# Setup
## Install code
```
git clone https://github.com/mrperkett/mnist-digits-visualization mnist-digits-visualization
cd mnist-digits-visualization/
# TODO: add pyenv commands
sudo pip install -e .
```

## build bhtsne
```
git clone https://github.com/lvdmaaten/bhtsne.git bhtsne
cd bhtsne/
g++ sptree.cpp tsne.cpp tsne_main.cpp -o bh_tsne -O2
cd ../
```

## install UMAP
TODO

## Download MNIST data
```
mkdir data
cd data/

wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/train-images-idx3-ubyte.gz
wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/train-labels-idx1-ubyte.gz
wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/t10k-images-idx3-ubyte.gz
wget http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/t10k-labels-idx1-ubyte.gz

gzip -d *.gz
cd ../
```

# Running t-SNE
```
python scripts/prepareData.py --data data/ -t training -n 1000 -o input
python bhtsne/bhtsne.py -d 2 -p 30 -r 0 -i input-data.tsv -o tsne-out.tsv
```

# plot using jupyter lab
